I want to reframe how you think about
closing.
Because if you've done everything right up
to this point, if you've built real rapport,
done thorough discovery, handled objections
with empathy, and stayed consistent in your
follow-up, closing should actually be the
easiest part.
Seriously. By the time you get to this
stage, the seller is talking to someone they
like, someone
they trust, and someone they want to do
business with.
They've already decided.
The close is really just the formal
agreement that makes it official.
The hard work already happened in the calls
and follow-ups that got you here.
Now, you're not the person presenting the
offer or negotiating the final terms.
That's the acquisition team's job.
But you play a real role in making the close
possible because you're the one who
delivered a qualified, motivated,
well-documented lead.
And you'll continue to support the process
after the handoff.
You need to understand how closing works for
a few practical reasons.
You'll sometimes be asked to help with
follow-ups during the offer stage.
Understanding closing also makes you better
at discovery because you know what
information the acquisition team actually
needs.
And as you grow in your career, you may take
on acquisition responsibilities yourself.
After you hand off a qualified lead, the
acquisition team reviews your notes and the
property data. They use comparable sales to
generate an offer range.
Then they contact the seller, ideally on a
call that you helped set up and present the
offer. A good offer presentation is clean
and simple.
Something like based on everything we've
looked at, the condition of the property, what
similar homes have sold for, and the repairs
that would be needed.
We're able to offer X amount in cash.
We'd close on your timeline, handle all the
paperwork, and you wouldn't need to do any
repairs or pay any fees.
How does that sound? No pressure, no
gimmicks, just a clear, honest offer.
The most common response to any offer is
some version of, I was hoping for more.
That's normal, expected, not a deal breaker.
The acquisition team handles negotiation,
but the framework they use is worth
understanding. They start by acknowledging,
I hear you and I completely understand.
Then they reframe the value.
Then they ask what works.
What number would you need to see to feel
good about this?
And from there, they figure out if there's a
gap they can close.
The thing about negotiation that matters
most is this.
It's not about winning.
It's about finding a number both sides can
feel good about.
If the seller walks away feeling like they
lost, the deal falls apart after the contract
is signed. Both parties need to feel
respected.
When the seller agrees to the offer verbally,
the next step is getting the contract
signed. The acquisition team confirms all
terms on the call.
A purchase agreement gets prepared and sent
to the seller.
The seller reviews and signs, usually
electronically.
And once it's signed, the deal moves to the
transaction team for closing.
After the contract is signed, there's still
work happening.
The title company verifies ownership, checks
for liens, and prepares for closing.
The team may inspect the property.
Closing logistics get coordinated, including
the date, signing location, and funds
transfer. The transaction coordinator
manages all of this.
Your involvement is minimal at this stage.
But you might be asked to reassure a seller
if they're getting nervous, help with
scheduling if they have questions, or relay
any new information that comes up.
Deals do fall apart sometimes, and it's
worth knowing why so you can help prevent it.
Sellers remorse is one of the most common
reasons.
They signed, but now they're second guessing
the decision. This usually happens when the
seller didn't feel heard during the process.
It's exactly why good discovery and genuine
rapport matter so much.
Family interference is another one.
A relative finds out about the deal and
talks the seller into backing out.
This is why identifying all the decision
makers during discovery is so critical.
Title issues come up too.
Liens, boundary disputes, unclear ownership,
and occasionally another
buyer comes in with a higher number.
It happens. But here's what's interesting.
If you built a genuine relationship with the
seller, they often stick with you even when
a competitor offers more.
Because they trust you.
Trust beats price more often than you'd
think.
Even though you're not the one signing the
contract, don't lose sight of the fact that
you're the person who made the deal possible.
That lead wouldn't have gotten anywhere
near a closing table without your follow up.
Your discovery built the foundation. Your
empathy built the trust.
Your consistency kept the opportunity alive
when another rep would have moved on.
When a deal closes and revenue comes in, it
started with a conversation you had.
That's the real impact of the work you do
every day.
On to the next section.